PERSONAL MANIFESTO TRANSCRIPT



So, um, well, I think it's different stuff. is that I always said a biology is the of that form of engineering. And right now we, we cannot engineer biology just because we don't, we don't understand it. Um, And so the way, the way I see the word, the where you're going, is that, for now, software and the hardware are, uh, separated.  It's we're not uh, or not good enough. Um, But, uh, the way it's going to be, the way it's going to be playing off is that We will start by, uh, designing. Hardware, as faster software, and uh, Engineers will move a high system engineering level.  Um, And we're still going to be needing GNT and tolerance thing. If we are bonded to the current manufacturing processes, But what idea is going to be happening is that we're going to be able to engineer biology to create what we want. I mean, at the end of the day, if we think about it, um, Also, my years of things that we see around us, they can be considered as afterwards.  Biology things, I mean. Also, you know, um, plants, convenience. You know, some sort of say factories that produce like leaves.  Um, It's happy. You know, arguably, let's say the leaf becomes a way for it to develop. So the products and the source of energy, sometimes they kind of like correspond, but imagine you're able to engineer.  Uh, like I did, the ultimate goal is uh, going from a 3D model to Uh, 3D object, using biology, in my opinion, and the engineering, the shift. Um, so that's what all of the things that I'm very interested in working on in my lifetime. Uh, ideally, you know, like self to glass would be an MBF, so you're going from a self for a glass.  And that glass should be, and in this way, I'm starting to view a few of things. First of all, you're going to be starting to be able to do custom manufacturing scale. From 1st principle to me doesn't make sense every time.  Uh, we would use hardware. You have to have something that is bigger and what you're building. Even in the case of few printers, you always have a bigger structure to build the thing that you want to build, and this is very counterintuitive to me, especially in nature, of just because we're not able to have technology that grows.  Then after this we're going to be potentially going or also like a step before doing all of this, maybe thinking about hardware as an ecosystem, right, then something independent. Like, if you have the reason why a human end doesn't need the same maintenance versus aerobotic hand, it's confluence my fans, it's because, actually, human hand is clinical system, it's not a structure, but it has continuous spontaneous, it is, like, make sure we're gonna have to, like, back here, it is, like, health steps, you know, here, die, it's a living structure, but we cannot replicate this complexity enough. Mechanical devices.  For a series of reasons. Starting with the fact that we have not developed almost anything that he's kind of like based on a swarm, you know, swarm based intelligence. Um, And so, like, ideally, what she would want to do is having a customised manufacturing a scale.  Um, Where you will not need to be worried about GNT at all in the future, ideally, because you're going to be able to produce parts that are like, so accurate that even when you design a card, abnomial dimensions, you're going to be pretty much right. All the time, you're not going to be, right now, GMT and every other mutations are not due to the nature of the product that dos you, the manufacturing of the product. If you change, you need to be manufacturing, you can control it in a different way.  Uh, you know, that becomes, um, becomes not a restriction anymore. So for me, uh, Mechanical structure, biology are very much, um, intertwined, and something that is scary to me is that, uh, in our culture, we give, uh, let's say, uh, 3 years or like plants or like animals of different names. So we don't see them as technology.  And that limits intrinsically this amount we can be structurally used for the language, limits intrinsically the way you think about things. It is very scary to me. Because to me, when I see a plant, it's just like, kept so advanced that we can kind of like comprehend, but we cannot replicate that.  Um, Yeah, I, and then once you're going to be starting to use biology as a manufacturing process, you're going to be starting to obstruct yourself from uh, the body, which becomes more of a container. It starts not to become important. the body because you're going to be able to have a technology that can at this point in time, hopefully, after doing manufacturing a scale, you can translate that knowledge into your own body and you can start seeing, at this point, a robot and a human body will be comprehended in the same way or at least high level in the same way. And if you think about it, the reasons why we die, usually I like 3 stupid reasons.  Uh, you know, having uh, uh, someone shoots you, you lose flaws, you lose pressure. Um, concert is like another body that develops and uh, you know, you can accimulate it to, you know, something, like, capacitor, you know, like swelling and, you know, like fluffing or something and damages, the surrounding surface. Like, it's pretty much the same, the problem is the environment and the structure is to have conflicts that you have no uh, tools to act on it.  Like in biology right now, I've been thinking about it and you have so many problems, which is, uh, but all the boil down to a few things. observability, uh, simply speaking, you cannot see, you know, what is going on with your body, uh, at any given time. Uh, you know, for a key zero, uh, let it be during a snapshot of time. Then you have deliverability.  Right now, we can know the, we know the location very accurately of things that we want to fix, like humours or other stuff, but we cannot. We don't have any way to communicate with our immune system of, you know, any, with any set at all, just say, go to location X, Y, Z. So, vulnerability, uh, is not solved for, like delverbility and also like interface with human bodies, but delverbability arrives 1st because also you can, even if you want, if you, even if you don't want communicates, you want to interact with your body as an external host. You cannot deliver what you want, like a precision that you want.  And that's why you just like bombard with the x-rays and the stuff with rays and radiations and the sound things because if the format constructing interference, what you needed, then, you know, there is that's more damage. Uh, uh, then you have uh, scale of it, just a problem right now. You cannot really, uh, Love symbiology are pretty much founded to human labour, unfortunately.  But that's something that can be addressed pretty much right now, probably, does not need any breakthrough in free 6, and that's something that I want to work on as well. You know, I'm starting with a thought in this, that, um, you can understand our different control and ultimately, the shape of things. As it arrives by working on scalability that gives you enough information to observe, to have an indirect observability because if you want to have direct observability, then that becomes like a physics play through for whether you have to have and gets more complicated, it's less predictable. and less actionable.  Um, So, I won't think that's on this. And then there is gonna be a certain point in time, we have, after you start seeing the human body as a, you know, system and uh, um, and being able to understand it there. You would want to edit this system, not within generations.  You will want to control the evolution, obviously, just like generations, but within a very finite timeline. Example, I want to, uh, I want to change my body for a specific purpose. Like, I don't know, I have to go for a, uh, hike or something.  I want to change my body to be like, like I want to climb, I will change my skin so that I can stick to things. that's gonna be like a very interesting part. But 1st before doing that, you know, like being able to edit your body in a very short time frame, you would have to understand. You're afraid 1st understand how other organists work, and also translate the knowledge from what other things to humans. at that point you have like an exponential evolution on humans that you have never had before.  Uh, and then it's just like purely all the storyline that I've given you so far is purely from a mechanical standpoint and then, you know, mechanical mechanics is going to be fusing with biology. But now there is also another aspect of it, which is about intelligence. Nowadays, I'm...  Oh, it's a bit more of the opinion that intelligence does not. For every side, frequency for intelligence is not any kind of like, specialty in the human body, but it's just like intelligence, uh, emergence, like this, this collective bill is called emergence, and uh, I feel like intelligence just emerges from it, uh, which is, um, when you have enough complexity, intelligence emerges. So like, purely speaking, when you have a certain number of neurons that are connected, between themselves, intelligence emerged, conscious emerges, and that could be, if you, maybe there is something that we didn't crack yet in terms of like how, uh, the actual brain works, just like in communication with neurons, because it's quite different compared to uh, neural networks that we have right now.  So maybe with the current around that, we need exponentially more when it's significantly more connections to make some sort of let's say significant intelligence as, as we intended, you know, manifest, but I feel like we're getting closer. Um, Scarely closer. And then, and then there is a question that emerges, which is, well, if you can, uh, uh, have a same sort of collective intelligence where you, Or basically, uh, connect different units and form, you know, like a collective intelligence.  Uh, And this also writes this question about organism. Regarding, okay, like him, at the end of the day, I hear my body is like a selection of organians that hold together and we are actually like an ecosystem. single beings, sort of saying. Um, But then if we look at them, we start thinking, okay, does they are, like, Is the word colony, uh, organist, or is the symbol anthon organist?  Um, That's a very fascinating question, but I mean, these are more questions. I have more questions on this field than answers, like optionable steps or, you know, decision points of what I want to do. I have more points on the mechanical side of things and yeah, I feel like the future is going to be very interesting.  Ultimately, my goal is to, uh, enable the world to arrive at the point of engineering where we can edit, uh, and manipulate our biology to, um, be able to face and survive like human trouble because I want to go to uh, far away galaxies. I don't think we can do it in my lifetime, 8, and B, with our hard, our body. It's very much, yeah, for, you're going to be getting healed, initially, this technology to get there. or you're going to be incurring in serious issues, serious, I don't know, psychological issue, if you have to travel for years, you know, very, festival things, and um, So yeah, there are all a series of concepts that would be interesting exploring from, you know, like being able to stand radiation, to be able to, uh, infurnish yourself, uh, using, uh, maybe like systems that are very similar to primates in Madagascar or some fixing there.  There are lots of interesting and extending lifetime, of course, but that's the 1st thing. So that's, uh, Those are the series of quests, but I feel like hardware, regardless. It's a crucial step to go.  And I want to design hardware. I want to enable to 1st uh, uh, design hardware as we know it, but significantly foster, uh, because to make, for a quick site for everything that I mentioned, well, to progress in everything, from the mechanical front of view, is that you need to build hardware, regardless for doing biological experience, a scale, for doing anything, a scale needs to be a hardware. Building hardware, a nice for explore.  So I want to make it 100 or 1000 X so that I can benefit from everyone using this technology. in my own lifetime. Because if I develop a tool that makes hardware to sign fosters, one their 1000 X, then I can dedicate the rest of my life on problems that, you know, otherwise would have been solved in 10 years instead of maybe one years, because I put this tool available for everyone and everyone uses this tool. That's who nowadays is anonymous.  So that's my, that's my 1st step. Currently, I keep, I keep, saying in form about field of biology and uh, other fields that I, it felt like. And, um, I feel like enabling hardware to be fosters, it's going to be moving also engineers at a higher level, system engineers, and it's going to be able, it's going to be able to enable engineers to become innovators again, because it is something very missing.  So this is like my kind of like personal manifest.